[ADD] Thailand localisation Documentation (#5483)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/thailand.rst

Thailand.

Sales and purchase tax report
-----------------------------

To generate a sales and purchase tax report, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Tax
Report`. Select a specific time or time range on the tax report, and click
:guilabel:`VAT-202-01 (xlsx)` for purchase tax, and :guilabel:`VAT-202-02 (xlsx)` for sales tax.

.. image:: thailand/thailand-tax-report.png
   :alt: Thai purchase and sales taxes reports

Withholding PND tax report
--------------------------

PND report data displays the summarized amounts of the applicable **withholding corporate income
tax returns (domestic)** from vendor bills under the :guilabel:`PND53 (TH)` and
:guilabel:`PND3 (TH)` tax reports, and is installed by default with the Thai localization.

.. image:: thailand/thailand-pnd-report.png
   :alt: PND tax reports

.. note::
   Withholding corporate income tax returns (domestic) is the tax used in case the company has
   withheld the tax from “**Personal (PND3)**” or “**Corporate (PND53)**” services provided such as
   rental, hiring, transportation, insurance, management fee, consulting, and etc.

> The PND Tax report allows users to generate a CSV file for bills to upload on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PND tax report allows users to generate a CSV file for bills to upload on the
```

`RDprep for Thailand e-Filling application <https://efiling.rd.go.th/rd-cms/>`_.

To generate a PND CSV file, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Tax Report`, select a
specific time or time range on the tax report, and click :guilabel:`PND3` or :guilabel:`PND53`.

> This generates the :file:`Tax Report PND3.csv` and :file:`Tax Report PND53.csv` file that lists all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates the :file:`Tax Report PND3.csv` and :file:`Tax Report PND53.csv` files that list all
```

the vendor bill lines with the applicable withholding tax.

.. image:: thailand/thailand-pnd3-pnd53.png
   :alt: PND3 and PND53 CSV files

.. warning::
   Odoo cannot generate the PND or PDF report or **withholding tax certificate** directly. The
   generated :file:`Tax Report PND3.csv` and :file:`Tax Report PND53.csv` files must be exported

>    to an external tool to convert it into a **withholding PND** report or **PDF** format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to an external tool to convert them into a **withholding PND** report or a **PDF** file.
```

Tax invoice
===========

The **tax invoice PDF** report can be generated from Odoo through the **Invoicing** module. Users
have the  option to print PDF reports for normal invoices and tax invoices. To print out
**tax invoices**, users can click on :guilabel:`Print Invoices` in Odoo. Regular invoices can be

> printed as **commercial invoice** by clicking on :menuselection:`⚙️ (Cog) --> Print --> Commercial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
printed as **commercial invoices** by clicking on :menuselection:`Cog button (⚙️) --> Print --> Commercial
```

Invoice`.

.. image:: thailand/thailand-tax-invoice.png
   :alt: Commercial invoice printing

Headquarter/Branch number settings
----------------------------------

> You can inform the **Headquarters** and **Branch number** of a company in the **Contacts** app. Once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can inform a company's **Headquarters** and **Branch number** in the **Contacts** app. Once
```

========
Thailand
========

Configuration
=============

:ref:`Install <general/install>` :guilabel:`🇹🇭 Thailand` :ref:`fiscal localization package <fiscal_localizations/packages>`
to get all the default accounting features, such as chart of accounts, taxes, and tax reports with
exportation features. These features provide a base template to get started with using
Thailand accounting.

Chart of Accounts and Taxes
===========================

A default Chart of Accounts with minimum configuration is installed, along with the following taxes,
which are linked to the relevant account:

- | VAT 7%
- | VAT Exempted
- | Withholding taxes
- | Withholding Income taxes

Tax Report
==========

The Thailand Tax report is installed by default with the Thailand localization module,
allowing users to generate an Excel file to submit VAT to the Thailand Revenue Department.

Sales and Purchase Tax Report
-----------------------------

To generate a Sales and Purchase Tax report, select a specific time or time range on the tax report,
and click on :guilabel:`VAT-202-01 (xlsx)` for Purchase tax
and :guilabel:`VAT-202-02 (xlsx)` for Sales tax.

>   .. image:: thailand/thailand-tax-report.png
>      :align: center

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: thailand/thailand-tax-report.png
   :align: center
```

Withholding PND Tax Report
--------------------------

PND report data can display the summarized amounts of the applicable Withholding corporate income
tax returns (Domestic) from Vendor bills under the PND3 and PND53 tax reports.

.. image:: thailand/thailand-pnd-report.png
   :align: center

.. note::
   Withholding corporate income tax returns (Domestic) is the tax in case the company has
   withheld the tax from “**Personal (PND3)**” or “**Corporate (PND53)**” for services provided
   such as rental, hiring, transportation, insurance, management fee, consulting, and etc.

The PND Tax report is installed by default with the Thailand localization module allowing users to
generate a CSV file for bills to upload to the `RDprep for Thailand e-Filling application <https://efiling.rd.go.th/rd-cms/>`_.

To generate a PND CSV file, select a specific time or time range on the tax report,
and click :guilabel:`PND3` or :guilabel:`PND53`.

This generates the :file:`Tax Report PND3.csv` and :file:`Tax Report PND53.csv`
file that lists all the vendor bill lines with the applicable withholding tax.

>   .. image:: thailand/thailand-pnd3-pnd53.png
>      :align: center

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: thailand/thailand-pnd3-pnd53.png
   :align: center
```

.. warning::
   Odoo cannot generate the PND PDF report or Withholding Tax Certificate directly.
   The generated :file:`Tax Report PND3.csv` and :file:`Tax Report PND53.csv` files can be exported
   to an external tool for conversion into a Withholding PND report or PDF format.

Tax Invoice
===========

The Tax Invoice PDF report can be generated from Odoo on Invoicing module. User has the option to
print PDF reports for normal invoices and tax invoices. To print out Tax Invoices, users can click
on :guilabel:`Print Invoices` in Odoo. Normal invoices can be printed as
Commercial Invoice by clicking on :menuselection:`⚙️ --> Print --> Commercial Invoice`.

>   .. image:: thailand/thailand-tax-invoice.png
>      :align: center

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. image:: thailand/thailand-tax-invoice.png
   :align: center
```

Headquarter/ Branch number settings
-----------------------------------

Setting is done in Contact Application.
This information can be set on :menuselection:`Contact --> under Sales & Purchase tab --> Company ID`.
Leave this field blank if the contact is **Headquarters** and input the **Branch number**

> if the contact is identified as a branch.
>   .. image:: thailand/thailand-contact.png
>      :align: center

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if the contact is identified as a branch.

.. image:: thailand/thailand-contact.png
   :align: center
```
